>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 1:
AT LEAST 25 PEOPLE ARE SHOT IN A
NIGHTCLUB IN LITTLE ROCK,
ARKANSAS.
RESISTANCE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ELECTION INTEGRITY COMMISSION
GROWS AMID CONCERNS OVER VOTERS'
PERSONAL DATA.
AND, LOOKING BACK AT U.S.
NUCLEAR WEAPONS TESTS IN THE
NEVADA DESERT.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AUTHORITIES IN LITTLE ROCK,
ARKANSAS, SAY ALL 25 PEOPLE
WOUNDED BY GUNFIRE INSIDE A
MUSIC CLUB EARLY THIS MORNING
ARE EXPECTED TO SURVIVE.
THE VIOLENCE OCCURRED AROUND
2:30 A.M. INSIDE THE POWER ULTRA
LOUNGE, A TWO-STORY CLUB A MILE
FROM THE STATE CAPITOL BUILDING.
LITTLE ROCK POLICE SAY SEVERAL
PEOPLE FIRED WEAPONS DURING A
RAP CONCERT IN WHAT THEY BELIEVE
WAS A DISPUTE AMONG RIVAL GANG
MEMBERS.
POLICE SAY THOSE WOUNDED RANGED
IN AGE FROM 16 TO 35 YEARS OLD,
AND ALL WERE AFRICAN AMERICAN.
SO FAR, NO ARRESTS HAVE BEEN
MADE.
THE MEMPHIS-BASED RAPPER ON
STAGE AT THE TIME, FINESE
2TIMES, HAS EXPRESSED HIS
CONDOLENCES TO THE VICTIMS, WHO
WERE BEING TREATED AT FIVE LOCAL
HOSPITALS.
THOUGH TWO VICTIMS WERE IN
CRITICAL CONDITION, THE LITTLE
ROCK POLICE SAID NO INJURIES
WERE LIFE-THREATENING.
STATE OFFICIALS TODAY SUSPENDED
THE CLUB'S LIQUOR LICENSE, AND
LITTLE ROCK'S MAYOR SAID THE
CITY WILL BE SHUTTING DOWN THE
CLUB.
SIX VICTIMS OF YESTERDAY'S MASS
SHOOTING INSIDE A NEW YORK CITY
HOSPITAL REMAIN HOSPITALIZED.
FIVE PATIENTS IMPROVED TO STABLE
CONDITION AND ONE REMAINS
CRITICAL.
THEY WERE WOUNDED YESTERDAY
WHEN A DOCTOR, FIRED BY BRONX
LEBANON HOSPITAL TWO YEARS AGO,
ENTERED THE BUILDING WITH A
HIGH-POWERED, SEMI-AUTOMATIC
RIFLE.
THE GUNMAN OPENED FIRE ON THE
16th AND 17th-FLOOR FAMILY
MEDICINE DEPARTMENT WHERE HE
ONCE WORKED, KILLING A DOCTOR
AND WOUNDING FIVE OTHER STAFFERS
AND A PATIENT BEFORE SHOOTING
AND KILLING HIMSELF.
THE "NEW YORK DAILY NEWS"
REPORTS, TWO HOURS BEFORE HIS
RAMPAGE, THE GUNMAN SENT THE
NEWSPAPER AN EMAIL BLAMING THE
HOSPITAL FOR RUINING HIS MEDICAL
CAREER, BUT DID NOT THREATEN
VIOLENCE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS DEFENDING HIS
CONTROVERSIAL VOTING INTEGRITY
COMMISSION, FOLLOWING RESISTANCE
FROM HALF THE STATES IN THE
COUNTRY.
THIS MORNING, PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAID ON TWITTER, "NUMEROUS
STATES ARE REFUSING TO GIVE
INFORMATION TO THE VERY
DISTINGUISHED VOTER FRAUD PANEL.
WHAT ARE THEY TRYING TO HIDE?"
IN A SWEEPING REQUEST FOR
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE INFORMATION,
THE COMMISSION HAS ASKED STATES
FOR THE NAMES OF ALL REGISTERED
VOTERS, AS WELL AS THEIR HOME
ADDRESSES, LAST FOUR DIGITS OF
THEIR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS,
PARTY AFFILIATIONS, AND
ELECTIONS VOTED IN.
THE REQUEST ALSO SEEKS AVAILABLE
RECORDS OF MILITARY SERVICE AND
ANY FELONY CONVICTIONS.
OFFICIALS IN AT LEAST TEN STATES
AND WASHINGTON D.C. ARE REFUSING
TO COMPLY AT ALL, WHILE TWO
DOZEN OTHER STATES SAY THEY'LL
COMPLY ONLY PARTIALLY, DUE TO
STATE RESTRICTIONS ON WHO CAN
ACCESS SUCH INFORMATION AND FOR
WHAT REASONS.
THE LIST OF STATES INCLUDES BOTH
DEMOCRATIC-RUN STATES LIKE
CALIFORNIA AND NEW YORK, AND
REPUBLICAN-LED STATES LIKE
KENTUCKY AND MISSISSIPPI.
COMMISSION VICE CHAIRMAN KRIS
KOBACH AUTHORED THE REQUEST
LETTER, BUT EVEN HIS HOME STATE
OF KANSAS CAN'T PROVIDE VOTERS'
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS DUE TO
ITS PRIVACY LAWS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP LAUNCHED THE
COMMISSION FOLLOWING HIS
UNSUBSTANTIATED CLAIMS THAT
VOTER FRAUD, INCLUDING THREE
MILLION ALLEGEDLY FRAUDULENTLY
CAST BALLOTS, MIGHT HAVE COST
HIM THE NATIONAL POPULAR VOTE TO
HILLARY CLINTON.
COMMISSION CRITICS SAY THE
EFFORT IS A PRETEXT TO PASS
LEGISLATION MAKING IT HARDER FOR
PEOPLE TO REGISTER AND VOTE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS CARRYING HIS
PUBLIC FEUD WITH CABLE NEWS
ANCHORS JOE SCARBOROUGH AND MIKA
BRZEZINSKI INTO A THIRD DAY.
THIS MORNING, MR. TRUMP SAID ON
TWITTER, "CRAZY JOE SCARBOROUGH
AND DUMB AS A ROCK MIKA ARE NOT
BAD PEOPLE, BUT THEIR LOW RATED
SHOW IS DOMINATED BY THEIR NBC
BOSSES.
TOO BAD!"
THERE WAS NO DIRECT REPLY FROM
THEM OR NBC NEWS.
IT IS NOW LEGAL TO BUY AND SELL
MARIJUANA FOR RECREATIONAL USE
IN NEVADA.
AT THE STROKE OF MIDNIGHT,
NEVADA BECAME THE FIFTH STATE TO
LEGALIZE LIMITED AMOUNTS OF THE
DRUG, FOLLOWING A STATE
REFERENDUM APPROVING THE MOVE
LAST NOVEMBER.
WITH A VALID I.D., ANYONE 21-
YEARS-OLD OR OLDER CAN BUY UP TO
AN OUNCE OF MARIJUANA FOR USE AT
HOME, BUT SMOKING POT IN PUBLIC
REMAINS BANNED.
NEVADA JOINS COLORADO, OREGON,
WASHINGTON, ALASKA, AND
WASHINGTON, D.C. IN LEGALIZING
POT.
CALIFORNIA, MAINE, AND
MASSACHUSETTS ARE ON TRACK TO
JOIN THEM NEXT YEAR.
IT WILL BE AT LEAST SIX MORE
MONTHS TILL THE PENTAGON ALLOWS
TRANSGENDER RECRUITS TO ENLIST
IN ANY BRANCH OF THE U.S.
MILITARY.
DEFENSE SECRETARY JIM MATTIS
SAID IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT LAST
NIGHT, THE MILITARY IS STILL
ASSESSING WHETHER THE MOVE WILL
AFFECT THE "READINESS OR
LETHALITY" OF THE ARMED FORCES.
THE PENTAGON REJECTED REQUESTS
BY THE ARMY AND AIR FORCE FOR A
LONGER, TWO-YEAR DELAY.
LAST YEAR, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ENDED THE BAN ON
OPENLY-TRANSGENDER PEOPLE FROM
SERVING IN THE MILITARY.
>> Sreenivasan: IRAQI ARMY
TROOPS CONTINUE TO CLOSE IN ON
TAKING BACK CONTROL OF MOSUL
FROM ISIS MILITANTS, WHO
CAPTURED IT THREE YEARS AGO.
MOSUL WAS THE COUNTRY'S SECOND-
LARGEST CITY AFTER BAGHDAD.
ONE U.S. COMMANDER SAYS U.S.
ARMY FORCES ARE HELPING THE
IRAQIS IN A "VERY CLOSE FIGHT IN
THE STREETS OF MOSUL."
MANY OF THE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
CIVILIANS TRAPPED BY THE
FIGHTING WITH LITTLE FOOD OR
WATER ARE NOW TRYING TO FLEE TO
SAFETY.
REUTERS REPORTER STEPHEN KALIN
IS COVERING THE CONFLICT AND
JOINS ME NOW VIA SKYPE FROM THE
IRAQI CITY OF IRBIL, ABOUT
60 MILES EAST OF MOSUL.
ON THURSDAY, THE IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER SAID BASICALLY VICTORY
HAS BEEN DECLARED OVER THE
CALIPHATE.
YOU WERE JUST THERE IN MOSUL
YESTERDAY.
WHAT'S IT LOOK LIKE?
>> FIGHTING IS ONGOING IN THE
OLD CITY OF MOSUL, WHICH IS A
CENTURIES-OLD DISTRICT OF THE
CITY.
THIS IS THE LAST AREA OF MOSUL
THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE STILL HAS
SOME PRESENCE IN.
IT'S GOING TO BE PRETTY GRIM.
REALLY NARROW ALLEYWAYS AND, YOU
KNOW, FIGHTING THAT GETS VERY
CLOSE...VERY CLOSE COMBAT.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL ME ABOUT
THE CIVILIANS THAT YOU SAW
THERE, THE ONES THAT WERE
FLEEING.
>> YEAH, WE WERE AT THE SITE OF
THE GRAND MOSQUE IN THE HEART OF
THE OLD CITY, WHICH IS WHERE
ISLAMIC STATE LEADER, ABU BAKR
AL-BAGHDADI, MADE HIS APPEARANCE
THREE YEARS AGO.
AND THIS IS WHERE WE SAW
CIVILIANS STREAMING OUT.
IT WAS A FEW DOZEN THAT WE SAW,
BUT I LATER HEARD THAT IT WAS
ACTUALLY 3,000 OVERALL YESTERDAY
THAT... THAT LEFT THE OLD CITY.
AND THEY WERE COMING OUT IN A
VERY DESPERATE STATE.
I'VE SEEN THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS OF RESIDENTS FLEEING
MOSUL FOR THE PAST EIGHT MONTHS,
AND THESE WERE BY FAR THE
WORST...IN WORST CONDITION.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY WOULD THEY
STAY THERE AS LONG AS THEY DID?
I MEAN, WERE SOME OF THEM BEING
HELD AGAINST THEIR WILL AS HUMAN
SHIELDS?
>> WELL, THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS
BEEN USING CIVILIANS AS... AS
HUMAN SHIELDS THIS ENTIRE TIME,
FOR THE ENTIRE BATTLE.
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT THE IRAQI
FORCES-- AND ESPECIALLY THE
INTERNATIONAL COALITION BACKING
THEM-- IS DOING EVERYTHING THEY
CAN TO PREVENT CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES, SO THEY'LL OFTEN
FORCE CIVILIANS TO STAY IN THE
LOWER GROUNDS OF A BUILDING AND
THEN PUT A SNIPER ON TOP SO THAT
THAT SNIPER IS... IS IN SOME
WAYS PROTECTED FROM MORTAR
ATTACKS OR AIR STRIKES.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL US A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THIS MOSQUE AND WHY
IT'S SUCH AN IMPORTANT SYMBOL
THERE.
>> THE GRAND NURI MOSQUE IS AT
THE CENTER OF THE OLD CITY,AND
IT HAS BEEN AROUND... WHICH IS
840 YEARS OLD, WHICH IS... IS
LEANING, SORT OF LIKE THE
LEANING TOWER OF PISA.
DUE TO, WE THINK, STRUCTURAL
PROBLEMS, IT BEGAN LEANING VERY
SOON AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
SO, THIS IS AN ICONIC SITE IN
MOSUL.
IT IS ALSO WHERE ISLAMIC STATE
LEADER ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI CAME
IN JULY 2014 AND MADE THIS...
REALLY THE ONLY PUBLIC
APPEARANCE THAT WE KNOW OF,
CONFIRMED PUBLIC APPEARANCE, AND
PROCLAIMED HIMSELF THE CALIPH,
THE LEADER OF THE ISLAMIC STATE.
THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE HE CAME.
AND THE IRAQI FORCES WERE HOPING
TO GET TO THIS SITE, TAKE DOWN
THE... THE BLACK ISIS FLAG THAT
HAS BEEN HANGING THERE FOR THE
PAST THREE YEARS, AND STRING UP
THE... THE TRI-COLOR IRAQI FLAG
AS A REALLY SYMBOLIC SIGN OF
VICTORY.
THEY WEREN'T ABLE TO DO THAT
BECAUSE, JUST OVER A WEEK AGO
NOW, THE ISLAMIC STATE RIGGED
THE... THE ENTIRE COMPLEX WITH
EXPLOSIVES AND BLEW IT UP.
THE ONLY PART OF THE MOSQUE THAT
WAS STILL INTACT WAS THE... THE
DOME UNDER WHICH BAGHDADI STOOD
AND MADE THAT MESSAGE THREE
YEARS AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW, THE IRAQI
FORCES THAT YOU SPEAK TO, WHAT'S
THE NEXT STEP?
LET'S SAY, BEST-CASE SCENARIO,
THEY RETAKE THE CITY; IT'S IN
RUINS RIGHT NOW.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE IN MOSUL IS
VERY HEAVILY DAMAGED.
WHERE THERE IS ELECTRICITY AND
WATER, IT'S USUALLY PROVIDED BY
GENERATORS OR WATER TRUCKS.
BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE IS NOT
THERE.
SO, THE BATTLE CONTINUES, AND
SECURITY AND STABILITY--
MAINTAINING THAT-- REALLY, IS
GOING TO BE A... A TRICK FOR THE
SECURITY FORCES, AS WELL.
WE'RE ALMOST 100% SURE THAT THE
ISLAMIC STATE HAS LEFT SLEEPER
CELLS, THAT... THAT SOME OF
THEIR FIGHTERS HAVE BLENDED IN
WITH THE CIVILIAN POPULATION.
AND SO, WE EXPECT THAT, YOU
KNOW, THERE WILL BE SOME SORT OF
A... OF A RETURN TO INSURGENT
ATTACKS, AND THAT'LL BE TASK
NUMBER ONE FOR THE SECURITY
FORCES TO... TO HANDLE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
STEPHEN KALIN OF REUTERS JOINING
US VIA SKYPE FROM IRBIL TONIGHT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: GLOBAL SEA LEVEL
RISE WENT UP 50% BETWEEN 1994
AND 2014, ACCORDING TO A STUDY
PUBLISHED THIS WEEK IN THE
JOURNAL "NATURE CLIMATE CHANGE."
IN 2014 ALONE, IT WENT UP AN
EIGHTH OF AN INCH.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO SEE WHAT
THOSE NUMBERS ACTUALLY MEAN,
TAKE A LOOK AT THE INCREASING
NUMBER OF FLOODING EVENTS ALONG
THE EAST COAST OF THE UNITED
STATES.
THE NONPROFIT CLIMATE CENTRAL
LOOKED AT 90 CITIES FROM
MASSACHUSETTS TO FLORIDA.
INCLUDED IN THAT LIST ARE
ATLANTIC CITY AND OTHER TOWNS ON
THE NEW JERSEY SHORE.
I RECENTLY SPOKE TO THE REPORTER
OF THAT STORY, JOHN UPTON.
YOU WORKED ON THIS FOR SIX
MONTHS; WHY FOCUS ON ATLANTIC
CITY?
I MEAN, ATLANTIC CITY, TO A LOT
OF US, THINK... WE THINK
CASINOS, THE TRUMP TAJ MAHAL, ET
CETERA, ET CETERA.
BUT THERE'S A LOT MORE PEOPLE
THAT LIVE THERE.
>> SO, THE CLIMATE CENTRAL
SCIENTISTS ACTUALLY CONDUCTED
ANALYSIS.
THEY LOOKED AT HUNDREDS OF U.S.
COASTAL CITIES AND EXAMINED THE
INCREASE THAT ARE EXPECTED AND
THE FLOOD RISKS IN EACH OF
THOSE.
THEY IDENTIFIED ABOUT 90 THAT
FACE VERY SHARP INCREASES IN...
IN FLOODING RISKS.
A LOT OF THESE CITIES TEND TO BE
BUILT ALONG BAYS, ALONG RIVERS,
NEAR THE MOUTHS OF ESTUARIES, SO
THEY HAVE A VERY LOW TOPOGRAPHY.
AND THE HIGHEST-RISK ONES TEND
TO BE CLUSTERED ALONG THE MID-
ATLANTIC.
AND ATLANTIC CITY SIMPLY SHOWED
UP AS BEING ONE OF THE CITIES
THAT FACES THE GREATEST RISKS.
BUT IN ADDITION TO THAT, IT ALSO
HAS THIS GREAT INEQUITY AMONG
THE RICH AND THE POOR THAT...
IT'S A CITY THAT'S IN ECONOMIC
DECLINE RIGHT NOW, SO I WANTED
TO EXAMINE HOW... HOW THEY'RE
ADAPTING TO... TO THE CHANGES
IN... IN SEA LEVEL THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU ALSO TOOK
VIDEO IN YOUR ARTICLE.
I KNOW YOU SPENT SIX MONTHS
WORKING ON THIS PROJECT.
THERE'S A PIECE OF SOUND THAT WE
HAVE FROM ONE OF THE RESIDENTS
THERE.
LET'S TAKE A LISTEN TO HER.
>> IT WASN'T THAT BAD.
IT WASN'T BAD WHEN YOU FIRST
MOVED IN HERE.
IT WAS EIGHT INCHES BEFORE.
ANOTHER TEN INCHES, IT'S GOING
TO BE IN THE HOUSE.
RIGHT NOW, WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO
PUT A WASHER AND DRIER UP.
IT'S ALL REPLACEABLE, BUT IT'S
VERY HARD AND VERY INCONVENIENT.
AND MONEY, YOU KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS NOT
AFTER HURRICANE SANDY.
THIS WAS AFTER WHAT KIND OF
WEATHER?
>> THIS... WHEN THERE'S A... A
FULL MOON OR A NEW MOON, YOU GET
HIGHER TIDES THAN AT NORMAL
TIMES.
JUST YESTERDAY, I WAS RETWEETING
SOME PICTURES FROM THIS STREET,
ARIZONA AVENUE, ATLANTIC AVENUE,
THAT WERE FLOODING SIMPLY
BECAUSE THERE WAS A HIGH TIDE
ASSOCIATED WITH A FULL MOON.
AT THE SAME TIME, THERE WAS A
STORM.
THE STORMS PUSH WATER FROM THE
COAST TOWARDS THE LAND.
SO, YOU HAVE THE TIDE ACTUALLY
RISING UP IN THE STREET, COMING
THROUGH THE STORM WATER DRAINS.
AT THE SAME TIME AS THAT, YOU
HAVE HEAVY RAIN-- OR EVEN ANY
RAIN-- AND THE RAIN CAN'T DRAIN
AWAY.
SO, WHAT YOU GET IS VERY
SUBSTANTIAL FLOODING IN SOME OF
THESE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE
BUILT ALONG BAYS IN ATLANTIC
CITY.
AND THAT WAS THE CASE IN THE
VIDEO THAT YOU JUST SAW.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THIS IS JUST
PEOPLE GETTING USED TO THIS AS A
FACT OF LIFE ON-- IF THE
CIRCUMSTANCES ARE RIGHT,
BASICALLY A FULL MOON AND A
HEAVY RAIN OR STORM, AND IT'S
OVER.
>> THIS CAN HAPPEN... THIS IS
HAPPENING MONTHLY.
THIS IS HAPPENING ALL THE TIME.
THE RESIDENTS HAVE THEIR OWN
SYSTEMS FOR DEALING WITH IT.
THEY ALERT EACH OTHER WHEN THEY
SEE THE WATERS RISING.
THEY... THEY'VE ALL LOST CARS.
THEY... THEY MOVE THEIR CARS.
THEY PARK THEM IN A GARAGE IN
THE DOWNTOWN AREA OR ON HIGHER
LAND.
THEY PUT THEIR FURNITURE UP ON
ON BLOCKS.
THEY TAKE PRECAUTIONS BECAUSE
THEY'VE ALL EXPERIENCED SERIOUS
FLOODS, AND SO THEY JUST TAKE
MEASURES TO... TO MINIMIZE
THE... THE IMPACT EACH TIME IT
FLOODS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DOES
THIS DO TO THE PROPERTY VALUE?
I'M IMAGINING RIGHT NOW, AFTER I
SEE THIS STORY, OR AT LEAST
PEOPLE WHO KNOW WHAT THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR, I'M NOT GOING TO
BUY A HOUSE THAT'S ON THAT
STREET.
AND SO, THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
THERE, IF THEY CAN'T SELL IT...
>> AND SO, IT'S NOT ONLY THAT
IT'S UNAPPEALING BECAUSE IT'S
FLOODING, BUT ATLANTIC CITY IS
IN SUCH SERIOUS ECONOMIC
DECLINE.
IT HAD 5% OF THE POPULATION
LEAVE JUST OVER THE LAST DECADE.
ALL OF THE JOBS ARE DRYING UP.
THE TECH SPACE IS DRYING UP.
NOBODY WANTS TO BE BUYING
PROPERTY IN ATLANTIC CITY, LET
ALONE IN THESE REALLY VULNERABLE
AREAS.
AND OVER THE LAST 12 MONTHS, TWO
HOUSES IN THIS ONE-BLOCK
STREET THAT I WENT TO, ARIZONA
AVENUE, TWO OF THEM HAVE SOLD
FOR LESS THAN $35,000 EACH.
AND WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT
RESIDENTS WHO ARE SOME OUT OF
WORK, ALL OF THEIR EQUITY IS
TIED UP IN THEIR HOUSE.
THEY NOW HAVE NO EQUITY LEFT.
THEY CAN'T SELL THEIR HOUSE.
THEY DON'T HAVE WORK IN ATLANTIC
CITY.
THEY WANT TO MOVE, BUT THEY
CAN'T SELL THEIR PROPERTY.
THEY... THEY FEEL VERY TRAPPED.
SOME OF THEM REALLY EXPRESSED
SOME VERY STRONG EMOTIONS TO ME.
THEY FEEL STUCK.
>> Sreenivasan: ISN'T THE ARMY
CORPS OF ENGINEERS WORKING IN A
DIFFERENT PART OF THE SAME TOWN
OR THE SAME CITY TO TRY TO SHORE
UP THE DEFENSES TO DOWNTOWN?
>> SURE.
SO, USING SANDY RECOVERY FUNDS,
THE ARMY CORPS IS ENGAGING TWO
FAIRLY MAJOR PROJECTS QUITE
CLOSE TO ARIZONA AVENUE, CLOSE
TO THESE, YOU KNOW, WORKING-
CLASS NEIGHBORHOODS IN ATLANTIC
CITY.
ONE IS IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
THAT'S A BIG SEAWALL THAT'S
BEING BUILT TO PROTECT THE
CASINOS AND THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
THEY'RE ALSO ABOUT TO SPEND TENS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS ON SAND
DUNES TO PROTECT COASTAL...
OCEANFRONT HOMES, OFTEN COSTING
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, OFTEN
OCCUPIED ONLY DURING THE SUMMER.
THESE ARE HOLIDAY HOUSES.
SO, THEY'RE GETTING PROTECTIONS
EVEN THOUGH THEY'VE ACTUALLY
SUED TO TRY TO PREVENT THE
PROJECT BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT
TO LOSE THEIR VIEWS.
SO, ALL AROUND THESE RESIDENTS,
THEY CAN SEE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WORKING TO ALLEVIATE
FLOODING RISKS.
BUT THESE WORKING-CLASS
RESIDENTS OF... OF ATLANTIC CITY
ARE GETTING NOTHING.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU FOCUSED
ON ATLANTIC CITY, BUT YOU ALSO
HAVE AN INTERACTIVE MAP ON THE
SITE-- JUST VERY INTERESTING--
AND IT POINTS OUT HOW THIS IS
HAPPENING IN DIFFERENT COASTAL
POPULATIONS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, IF YOU KIND OF
CLICK THROUGH AND YOU SEE KIND
OF MYRTLE BEACH IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, AND YOU HAVE THIS SORT
OF BAR GRAPH THAT TALKS ABOUT
WHAT THE FLOOD RISKS ARE GOING
TO BE NOW AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
20 OR 30 YEARS FROM NOW.
ALMOST IN EVERY ONE OF THOSE
PLACES, OBVIOUSLY, IT'S GETTING
WORSE.
>> YEAH, AND THE... THE AREAS
THAT ARE BUILT ALONG BAYS, THE
AREAS THAT ARE BUILT ALONG
RIVERS, THESE WORKING-CLASS
NEIGHBORHOODS, THEY FACE THE
GREATEST RISKS.
AND, YOU KNOW, WE HAVE TO BE
SERIOUS HERE.
WE HAVE TO STOP PUTTING SO MUCH
POLLUTION INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
THAT'S CAUSING THE SEAS TO RISE.
AND WE NEED TO TAKE MEASURES
TO... TO STOP THAT.
BUT EVEN IF WE... EVEN IF WE
STOP POLLUTING THE ATMOSPHERE
TOMORROW, WE'VE LOCKED IN SO
MUCH SEA LEVEL RISE AT THIS
POINT, IT'S SUCH A SLOW-MOVING
DISASTER THAT WE'VE BEGUN, THAT
WE'RE STILL GOING TO SEE THE
RISKS INCREASING VERY
DRAMATICALLY IN A NUMBER OF
THESE CITIES AROUND THE U.S. AND
ALSO AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW IS A
HOUSE INSURABLE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE THIS?
SO, WHEN YOU LOOK AT DOWNTOWN
MIAMI, THESE CONDOS ARE VERY
EXPENSIVE, AND THEY'RE THERE.
AND HERE, WE HAVE A SITUATION
THAT 30 YEARS FROM NOW, ALL THE
PROJECTIONS SAY IT'S ACTUALLY
GOING TO GET WORSE.
SO, IF I'M IN A 30-YEAR
MORTGAGE: A, WHO'S GIVING ME
THAT MORTGAGE; AND THEN, WHAT'S
THE INSURANCE... WHO'S GIVING ME
THE INSURANCE?
>> THE ONLY REASON THAT YOU CAN
GET INSURANCE IN THESE AREAS IS
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS
ALWAYS SUBSIDIZED, HAS ALWAYS
PROVIDED FLOOD INSURANCE.
IT'S PROMOTED AND ENCOURAGED AND
EFFECTIVELY SUBSIDIZED HOUSE-
BUILDING, URBAN DEVELOPMENT,
HOME-BUYING, IN... IN VERY
VULNERABLE COASTAL AREAS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, WE'RE ALL
PAYING FOR IT.
>> WE'RE ALL PAYING FOR IT.
THE... THE FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAM IS CURRENTLY MORE THAN
$20 BILLION IN ARREARS.
AND SO, THERE HAVE BEEN ATTEMPTS
TO REFORM THESE FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAMS.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT WHAT
CONGRESS DISCOVERED IS THAT ONCE
YOU TAKE THESE SUBSIDIES AWAY,
THE HOMEOWNERS, THE VOTERS
SUDDENLY SEE VERY SUDDEN AND
SUBSTANTIAL INCREASES IN... IN
THEIR INSURANCE RATES, AND
THEY'RE SUDDENLY PAYING WHAT THE
MARKET WOULD... WOULD HAVE TO
OFFER.
AND THAT'S VERY UNPOPULAR.
IT'S A HARD THING TO CHANGE NOW
THAT WE'VE GOT THAT IN PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, THE
REPORT IS ON CLIMATE CENTRAL'S
WEB SITE.
JOHN UPTON, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> IT'S GREAT TO BE HERE.
THANKS FOR YOUR INTEREST.
>> Sreenivasan: TROY WILLIAMS
SPENT 18 YEARS BEHIND BARS.
NOW, HE'S EDITING A NEWSPAPER
THAT IS AVAILABLE TO PEOPLE IN
PRISON ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: NORTH KOREA,
WHICH FIRST TESTED A NUCLEAR
WEAPON IN 2006, IS CURRENTLY THE
FOCUS OF NON-PROLIFERATION
PRESSURE BY THE U.S., CHINA, AND
OTHER WORLD POWERS.
THE U.S. FIRST TESTED NUCLEAR
WEAPONS 72 YEARS AGO, IN JULY OF
1945.
THE GOVERNMENT CONDUCTED MORE
THAN 900 SUCH TESTS IN THE
NEVADA DESERT THROUGHOUT THE
COLD WAR.
NOT ONLY WERE MUSHROOM CLOUDS
VISIBLE FROM THE LAS VEGAS
STRIP, THEY BECAME AN UNLIKELY
TOURIST ATTRACTION.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S IVETTE
FELICIANO HAS THIS REPORT ON A
BOOK TELLING THE HISTORY OF THIS
ERA IN AN UNCONVENTIONAL WAY.
>>IN THE FALL OF 1951...
>> Reporter: IN 1951, THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT STARTED TESTING
ATOMIC BOMBS IN NEVADA'S MOJAVE
DESERT, MEASURING THE EFFECTS OF
THESE WEAPONS FOR MILITARY
APPLICATIONS AND ON CIVILIAN
LIFE.
UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA-LAS VEGAS
PROFESSOR ANDY KIRK HAS STUDIED
THE ERA.
>> DID THEY REALLY BUILD FAKE
TOWNS OUT IN THE DESERT AND THEN
BLOW THE WHOLE PLACE UP WITH
ATOMIC BOMBS?
AND THE ANSWER IS YES, IN FACT,
THEY DID DO THAT.
>> Reporter: THEY WERE CALLED
"DOOM TOWNS."
AND, AS SEEN IN THIS 1955 PUBLIC
INFORMATION FILM, THE FEDERAL
CIVIL DEFENSE ADMINISTRATION
BUILT HOUSES, STOCKED THEM WITH
FOOD, AND PLACED FULLY-DRESSED
MANNEQUINS INSIDE TO LEARN WHAT
MIGHT SURVIVE AN ATOMIC BOMB.
>> WOULD FOOD IN THE AVERAGE
HOME BE SAFE TO EAT AFTER A
BLAST?
>> THE PURPOSE, AS STATED BY THE
CIVIL DEFENSE AGENCIES, OF
CREATING THESE "DOOM TOWNS" AND
THEN WIDELY DISSEMINATING IMAGES
AND FILM OF THEM BEING
DESTROYED, WAS TO ENCOURAGE
AMERICANS TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF CIVILIANS
BEING THE TARGET OF NUCLEAR
ATTACK.
>> Reporter: "DOOM TOWNS" IS THE
TITLE OF ANDY KIRK'S NEW GRAPHIC
HISTORY ABOUT THIS ERA.
COLLABORATING WITH BRITISH
ARTIST KRISTIAN PURCELL, THE
BOOK WEAVES TOGETHER PRIMARY
DOCUMENTS, PHOTOS, AND THE ORAL
HISTORIES OF RESIDENTS,
SCIENTISTS, SOLDIERS, AND ANTI-
NUCLEAR ACTIVISTS.
>> INSTEAD OF JUST COLLECTING
EXAMPLES OF VISUAL HISTORY AND
COLLATING IT AND PRESENTING IT
IN SOME KIND OF A COFFEE TABLE
BOOK FORM-- YOU COULD ACTUALLY
THINK ABOUT DOING SOME OF THAT,
BUT ALSO IN CONJUNCTION WITH
TELLING THIS STORY AS A VISUAL
NARRATIVE.
SO, IN THE FORM OF A GRAPHIC
NOVEL, EXCEPT BASED ON CAREFUL
ARCHIVAL AND ORAL HISTORY
RESEARCH.
>> Reporter: KIRK FOUND THE
VISUAL STYLE OF A GRAPHIC
HISTORY WELL-SUITED FOR BRINGING
TO LIFE THE STORIES OF THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVED THROUGH NUCLEAR
TESTING, STORIES HE HELPED
COLLECT IN AN ORAL HISTORY
PROJECT PARTLY FUNDED BY THE
U.S. DEPARTMENTS OF ENERGY AND
EDUCATION.
PARTICIPANTS ARE LITERALLY DRAWN
INTO THE PANELS, AND DESCRIBE
NOT FULLY KNOWING ABOUT THE
HAZARDS OF RADIATION, HOW
SOLDIERS EXPERIENCED THE BLASTS
AT CLOSE RANGE AND WERE THEN
ORDERED TO MARCH TOWARD THE TEST
SITE TO SEE HOW THEY WOULD
RESPOND DURING AN ACTUAL ATTACK.
BUT THE TESTS WEREN'T ALL "DOOM
AND GLOOM," ACCORDING TO LAS
VEGAS NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER DON
ENGLISH, WHO RECALLED HOW HIS
PHOTOGRAPHS OF A DANCER IN FRONT
OF AN ATOMIC CLOUD BECAME ICONIC
IMAGES OF NEVADA'S NUCLEAR
TESTING LEGACY, AND HOW THE
BLASTS IN THE NEVADA DESERT
BECAME A DRAW FOR TOURISTS.
>> I'M NOT AN ARTIST, SO WHEN I
WATCH AN ARTIST WORK, I THOUGHT
IT WAS JUST REALLY COOL.
SO, THIS IS THE DRAFT SKETCH
THAT IS REALLY JUST COMING OUT
OF HIS HEAD AS HE'S ENCOUNTERING
PRIMARY HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS.
>> Reporter: KIRK'S BOOK
EXPLORES HOW THE BLASTS AFFECTED
NEARBY COMMUNITIES, AND HOW
NUCLEAR FALLOUT WAS MORE
UNPREDICTABLE THAN PORTRAYED BY
SCIENTISTS AND THE MILITARY.
>> THE PUBLIC INFORMATION TRIED
TO DEPICT TESTING AS CONTAINED
AND AS LOW-RISK.
BUT IN PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE,
THERE'S ALWAYS A TONE OF
UNCERTAINTY.
>> Reporter: EVENTUALLY, LOCAL
COMMUNITIES LEARNED FALLOUT FROM
SOME OF TESTS WERE FAR MORE
EXPANSIVE AND DANGEROUS THAN
THEY REALIZED, INCLUDING A LARGE
SHEEP KILL IN A WIDE RANGE OF
UTAH IN 1953.
>> THERE ARE MANY, MANY PEOPLE
WHO DIDN'T FUNDAMENTALLY OPPOSE
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THEY WERE PATRIOTIC.
THEY WERE EVEN WILLING TO MAKE
SACRIFICES PERSONALLY FOR THE
COLD WAR.
BUT THEY DID WANT GOOD
INFORMATION, AND THEY WANTED TO
BE TOLD THE TRUTH.
>>IT DETONATED PERFECTLY,
RELEASING ITS LETHAL RADIATION.
>> Reporter: THE LAST ABOVE-
GROUND NUCLEAR TEST WAS IN 1962,
BUT UNDERGROUND TESTS CONTINUED
UNTIL 1992.
IN KIRK'S TELLING, RESIDENTS,
CIVILIAN WORKERS, AND SOLDIERS
ALIKE PLAYED KEY ROLES IN
NEVADA'S HISTORY AS A NUCLEAR
TESTING SITE, AND, IN A SENSE,
SHARED AN IDENTITY AS COLD WAR
VETERANS.
>> THIS IDENTITY AS A COLD WAR
VETERAN UNITED PEOPLE WHO WERE
VERY, VERY DIFFERENT IN OTHER
RESPECTS.
CALTECH SCIENTISTS OR SANDIA LAB
SCIENTISTS WHO WERE COMMINGLING
WITH LAS VEGAS RESIDENTS WHO,
JUST BY THE CIRCUMSTANCE OF
PROXIMITY TO THE TEST SITE, HAD
BEEN PULLED INTO THIS
EXTRAORDINARY SERIES OF EVENTS.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: CHINA AND HONG
KONG TODAY MARKED THE 20th
ANNIVERSARY OF THE FORMER
BRITISH COLONY'S HANDOVER TO
BEIJING WITH BOTH SPEECHES AND
PROTESTS.
HONG KONG HAS SEMI-AUTONOMOUS
RULE, WITH CIVIL LIBERTIES SUCH
AS FREE SPEECH, UNDER AN
ARRANGEMENT CHINA CALLS "ONE
COUNTRY, TWO SYSTEMS."
AFTER HELPING INAUGURATE HONG
KONG'S NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE,
CARRIE LAM, CHINESE PRESIDENT XI
JINPING HAD A BLUNT WARNING FOR
PRO-DEMOCRACY ACTIVISTS.
HE SAID ANY ATTEMPT TO THREATEN
POLITICAL STABILITY IN CHINA OR
HONG KONG WOULD CROSS A "RED
LINE" AND BE "ABSOLUTELY
IMPERMISSIBLE."
NO SOONER HAD XI LEFT FOR HOME
THAN THOUSANDS OF PRO-DEMOCRACY
PROTESTERS TOOK TO THE STREETS,
CALLING FOR MORE AUTONOMY AND
EVEN INDEPENDENCE FROM CHINA.
WORLD LEADERS PAST AND PRESENT
ATTENDED A MEMORIAL SERVICE
TODAY FOR FORMER GERMAN
CHANCELLOR HELMUT KOHL, WHO DIED
LAST MONTH AT 87.
KOHL WAS WEST GERMANY'S
CHANCELLOR FOR 16 YEARS, FROM
1982 TO 1998, AND OVERSAW THE
HISTORIC REUNIFICATION WITH EAST
GERMANY IN 1990.
DURING THE CEREMONY AT THE
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT IN
STRASBOURG, FRANCE, FORMER
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON SAID KOHL
"GAVE US THE CHANCE TO BE
INVOLVED IN SOMETHING BIGGER
THAN OURSELVES."
FRENCH PRESIDENT EMMANUEL MACRON
AND RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER
DMITRY MEDVEDEV WERE AMONG THE
DIGNITARIES ON HAND.
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL,
WHO CONSIDERED KOHL A MENTOR,
SAID IN ADDITION TO GERMAN
UNIFICATION, HE WAS THE CATALYST
FOR THE EUROPEAN UNION AS WE
KNOW IT, WITH ITS OPEN BORDERS
AND SINGLE CURRENCY.
>> (translated): HELMUT KOHL
PERSONIFIED AN ERA.
WITH HIS DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN
POLICY, HE SET A FRAMEWORK THAT
ARE STILL PRESENT TODAY.
HIS CHANCELLORY IS CONNECTED
WITH MANY YEARS OF ECONOMIC
PROSPERITY.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND, A NEW FILM
THAT TRACKS THE DESTRUCTION OF
THE WORLD'S CORAL REEFS, IN REAL
TIME.
>> THERE'S NOTHING NATURAL ABOUT
THE CYCLE THAT'S GOING ON RIGHT
NOW.
29% OF THE GREAT BARRIER REEF
DIED IN A SINGLE YEAR BECAUSE
THE WATER WAS HOT.
>> Sreenivasan: A DOCUMENT
OUTLINING ONE OF THE MOST FAMOUS
DEALS IN SPORTS HISTORY, THE
BOSTON RED SOX SALE OF SLUGGER
BABE RUTH TO THE NEW YORK
YANKEES IN 1919, SOLD AT AUCTION
FOR $2.3 MILLION TODAY.
RUTH'S WORLD SERIES RING WITH
THE 1927 YANKEES-- THE SEASON
HE HIT 60 HOME RUNS-- SOLD FOR
$2.1 MILLION.
Lelands.com DID NOT REVEAL THE
BUYERS, BUT THE SELLER WAS ACTOR
CHARLIE SHEEN.
AND FINALLY, A WARM WELCOME TO
VEGAS PBS, NOW A PART OF THE
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND FAMILY.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.